Agglayer v0.2 docs (#2589)
0xPolygon/polygon-docs: docs/agglayer/architecture/pessimistic-proof.md

<style>
   .git-revision-date-localized-plugin, .md-source-file, .md-content__button.md-icon {
      display: none;
   }
</style>

# Pessimistic Proof

## Overview
The pessimistic proof provides each chain connected to the AggLayer a way to cryptographically prove that any withdrawal claims made to the AggLayer are backed by deposits made to the unified bridge contract. The pessimistic proof is a novel ZK proof whose program logic is written in Rust and proven using the SP1 zkVM and the Plonky3 proving system.

## Design & Safety
The AggLayer is designed to be flexible enough to support blockchain architectures with different state transition functions, including Proof of Stake–style consensus or ZK rollups that use different proving systems.

The pessimistic proof does not extend security to chains integrated with the AggLayer; rather, each chain connected to the AggLayer is as secure as it would be if it were not integrated with the AggLayer.

> The AggLayer uses the pessimistic proof to provide a complete view of all token and message transfers occurring over the protocol. This allows chains that may not trust one another to safely interoperate.

Reviewer: 🤔 -- but the PP doesn't actually provide a complete view per se. Something like this? I don't love "Ensure" here, but its something like "If each chain generates this proof, then when we put all the commitments together in the right order, we are ensured that everything is ok"

```suggestion
The AggLayer uses per-chain pessimistic proofs to ensure a complete view of all token and message transfers occurring over the protocol. This allows chains that may not trust one another to safely interoperate.
```

## Building a Pessimistic Proof

> For any cross-chain token transfer to be finalized such that the token may be withdrawn on the underlying L1, a valid pessimistic proof must be generated. Each chain connected to the AggLayer is required to provide some of the inputs necessary for building a valid pessimistic proof.

Reviewer: Not going to change this for now, but we should probably re-work this a little bit because I think we can be a little bit more clear here. What this is saying is true for tokens which originate from L1, but for tokens originating from another L2 it would be more like... for a *chain* to finalize a set of token withdrawals, making their claims availble on destination chains, it is necessary to build a valid pessimsitic proof.

> **Note:** For more on how the AggLayer settles bridge claims to the underlying L1, see: [Unified Bridge](#)

## Token State

> Each chain maintains a data structure called a **Local Exit Tree**, which contains only the messages and token transfers originating from it. In the unified bridge, Ethereum holds a **Global Exit Root**, which represents all of the Local Exit Roots of chains integrated with the AggLayer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each chain maintains a data structure called a **Local Exit Tree**, which contains only the messages and token transfers originating from it. In the unified bridge, Ethereum holds a **Global Exit Root**, which represents a tree containing all of the Local Exit Roots of chains integrated with the AggLayer.
```
